New cluster node state diagram and other small improvements (#28293)
akka/akka: akka-docs/src/main/paradox/typed/cluster-membership.md

## State Diagrams

> ### State Diagram for the Member States 

Reviewer: :+1: to only show the typical case

![member-states.png](../images/member-state-diagram.png)
  
#### User Actions

 * **join** - join a single node to a cluster - can be explicit or automatic on
startup if a node to join have been specified in the configuration
   
 * **leave** - tell a node to leave the cluster gracefully, normally triggered by ActorSystem or JVM shutdown through @ref[coordinated shutdown](../coordinated-shutdown.md)
   

>  * **down** - mark a node as down - action required to remove crashed nodes from the cluster, can be triggered manually, through [Cluster HTTP Management](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-management/current/cluster-http-management.html#put-cluster-members-address-responses), or it is triggered automatically by a @ref[downing provider](cluster.md#downing) like [Split Brain Resolver](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-enhancements/current/split-brain-resolver.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **down** - mark a node as down. This action is required to remove crashed nodes (that did not 'leave') from the cluster. It can be triggered manually, through [Cluster HTTP Management](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-management/current/cluster-http-management.html#put-cluster-members-address-responses), or automatically by a @ref[downing provider](cluster.md#downing) like [Split Brain Resolver](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-enhancements/current/split-brain-resolver.html)
```

## State Diagrams

### State Diagram for the Member States 

![member-states.png](../images/member-state-diagram.png)
  
#### User Actions

 * **join** - join a single node to a cluster - can be explicit or automatic on
startup if a node to join have been specified in the configuration
   

>  * **leave** - tell a node to leave the cluster gracefully, normally triggered by ActorSystem or JVM shutdown through @ref[coordinated shutdown](../coordinated-shutdown.md)

Reviewer 2: Maybe also insert a reference to Cluster HTTP management

>  * **down** - mark a node as down - normally only used to remove crashed nodes from the cluster

Reviewer 2: More comprehensive suggestion but maybe a bit much:

```suggestion
 * **down** - mark a node as down - action required to remove crashed nodes from the cluster, can be triggered manually, through [Cluster HTTP Management](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-management/current/cluster-http-management.html#put-cluster-members-address-responses), or it is triggered automatically by a @ref[downing provider](cluster.md#downing) like [Split Brain Resolver](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-enhancements/current/split-brain-resolver.html)
```

   
#### Leader Actions

> The `leader` has the following duties of shifting members in and out of the cluster:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `leader` has the duty of confirming user actions to shift members in and out of the cluster:
```

 * joining ⭢ up

>  * weakly up ⭢ up *(no convergence is required for this leader action to be performed)*

Reviewer 2: Is that even correct? Shouldn't there be another edge "joining -> weakly up *(no convergence is required for this leader action to be performed)*". The edge "weakly up -> up" needs full convergence AFAIK.

```suggestion
 * joining ⭢ weakly up *(only gossip convergence is required for this leader action to be performed which works even if there are unreachable nodes)*
 * weakly up ⭢ up *(will be performed after full convergence is reached again)*
```

Author: No, that's right and is the whole point of weakly up, to allow nodes to work for cluster in the face of unreachability.

Reviewer: Exactly - so you can become 'weakly up' and start doing some work without convergence, but not fully 'up', right? https://github.com/akka/akka/blob/master/akka-cluster/src/main/scala/akka/cluster/ClusterDaemon.scala#L1155

Reviewer 2: Sorry, yes my suggestion was a weird mix of things. I think the current text is still wrong as well :) Here's a new suggestion after actually reading the code.

```suggestion
 * joining ⭢ weakly up *(no convergence is needed for this leader action to be performed which works even if there are unreachable nodes)*
 * weakly up ⭢ up *(will be performed after full convergence is reached again)*
```

>  * leaving ⭢ exciting

Reviewer 2: Exciting!!!!

```suggestion
 * leaving ⭢ exiting
```

Author: Exciting!

 * exiting ⭢ removed
 * down ⭢ removed

#### Failure Detection and Unreachability

> Being unreachable is not a separate member state but rather a flag in addition to the state. A node can become unreachable while in any of the states, meaning that the cluster is unable to talk to it. After becoming unreachable the failure detector may detect it as reachable again and thereby remove the flag.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to make it more accurate. Is that to much or covered elsewhere?

```suggestion
Being unreachable is not a separate member state but rather a flag in addition to the state. A failure detector on each node that monitors another node can mark the monitored node as unreachable independent of its state. Afterwards the failure detector continues monitoring the node until it detects it as reachable again and removes the flag. A node is considered reachable again only after all monitoring nodes see it as reachable again.
```
